
# CSV Editting with Python (Originally, Arches CSV Cleanup)

This script cleans up CSV files programmatically, targetting one column and modifying its data based on a single regex.

For context, this script was originally written for the Urban Planning Department of the City and County of San Francisco, to automate the cleanup of CSV files generated by another application (Arches). The target column contains a JSON object, of which only the picture elements were of interest.

The script originally generates a new CSV file mirroring all
data, while extracting picture file names from the field column "Information Carrier", and printing them separated by commas, enclosed in double quotes.

This script could easily be modified to serve other similar purposes involving CSV files.

## Last Modified

The final version of this script was released 03/08/2018.
Subsequent updates may follow as needed.

## Getting Started

This is a standalone script. Simply download the latest version (arches_cleanup_v2.py) and double click it to run it. The generated CSV will be stored in the same folder where the script runs.

## Constraints and Procedure

* Name the csv file you want to cleanup input.csv, all
 lower case.

* Keep the script in the same folder as your input.csv file.

* Although your csv may have as many files as you want, the
 script expects ìInformation Carrierî to be the second column
 of the spreadsheet. I understand that is a constant,
 but let me know if I misunderstood this, as the script will
 only work under this condition.

* Double click the script arches_cleanup.py

* You should see a new csv file generated in the same folder
where you are working, named output.csv

* The new file should mirror all data, except for the field
 Information Carrier, where you will find only the  picture
 file names, with their respective extension(jpg, etc),
 separated by commas, enclosed in double quotes.


## Authors

* **Jonathan Engelbert** - *Sole Developer* -
jonathanengelbert](https://github.com/jonathanengelbert/)

This project has no participating contributors at the moment.

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE.md](LICENSE.md) file for details

## Acknowledgments

* To all the amazing resources available online
* Mike Wynne
* Python Documentation (https://docs.python.org/3/)
